game play
Pong is the game in which players can engage in online competition. Users move their paddles to hit the ball back with them; if they are unsuccessful and the ball passes them, the other user scores a point. This is how the game functions. A scoring system will be used to keep track of the game's score, and each time a user scores, their score is increased by one. There is a scoreboard above the game that users can see to keep track of their performance. When a player scores 11 goals, the game is over. Alternatively, if the ten-minute timer has been reached and no players have yet scored 11 goals, the game is over. Three points will be awarded to the user with the highest score. Both players will score one point if the game ends in a tie. The user won't get any points if they lose. Both players must press the ‘start’ button for the game to begin. The user must use the arrow keys on their keyboards to operate their paddles.
game website homepage
When a user initially launches the game in their browser, they will view the homepage. When the website loads, the user will have a choice between four options. They will first have the choice of playing Pong without logging in or registering up. However, the user won't be able to monitor their game progress. For instance, the quantity of wins and the number of points they have acquired, so if the user exits the page, their progress is lost permanently. A sign-in button is the second choice, which enables users to access their accounts. The player can resume earning points from the point they left off after successfully checking in. A sign-up button is the third choice. Users will be directed to the signup page by this. By doing this, new players will be able to create an account and begin tracking their game progress. A scoreboard button, is the fourth option, will direct viewers to a leaderboard page where they may view the leaderboard. The leaderboard is also accessible to everyone. The leaderboard, however, will only display people who have registered. Additionally, there will be a navigation bar at the top of each page, both on the Game home page and all other pages, making it simpler for users to navigate around the website. The home, sign in, sign up, leaderboard, and play buttons are among the navigation page's buttons. Users will be able to alter the page they're on at any time thanks to this.  
 

Login page 
The ‘Login page’ has two text bars. The first bar will ask for the user’s username, the second bar will ask for the user’s password. Once the users have completed entering their details, they can then click on the login button. If the user’s detail is correct, then they will be logged into the game. This will allow them to view their progress on the leaderboard.
 
Register page
This page has three text bars. The first asking for the new user to create a username which they wish to use to track their progress. The second bar will ask for the user to create a password so they can secure their account. Finally, the third bar ask for the user’s email address. An email is required to verify the account as well as will help the user reset their password if in an event somebody forgets their password. Furthermore, the ‘set a profile picture’ button enables users to upload a picture from their computer to set as their profile picture in the game. Lastly when the user has finished filling in their details they can click on the ‘create an account button’. This will then create an account for the user.


 leaderboard page 
This page will enable users to view their progress which will be recorded by a table. The table will be split into 3 different columns, the first column will record the players usernames, the second column will record the number of points the player has obtained. Lastly, the third column will record the number of victories the player has gained. This will allow users to track their performance and compare their points to other players. Player’s progress will be ranked in order of points of highest at the top and lowest at the bottom of the table. However, the leaderboard page will only show the points of the users that have an account. 
 


Game page
This will be the page where the user can play the game on. The page includes scoreboard and timer which allows the users to track their score during the game as well as see how long is left. Furthermore, a start button is implemented for when the user is ready to play.

 










